friends here.
We're going to start about the models off.
Pipe on,
right.
Let me start it.
What is a model?
So in Piketon model is like a file or fight on program or python script.
So simply a model is a file containing fight on definition and statements.
So definition and statements means right,
like functions,
glasses on variables.
So there's as off.
No,
you don't know what is the function on what is a class,
you know,
only variable in case from other programming languages.
If you know functions and classes,
it's well and good.
If you don't know,
Don't worry.
Right?
So,
simply remember,
that model is a a file or python program.
Rpai transcript which consists off your python logics.
Simply right.
Fine.
Then what is the use off model?
Simply reusability purpose.
So how you're going to reuse your python script,
right?
Let me write to two scripts.
Then I can show you how you can reuse that.
See,
guys,
just a gender.
I have a value.
Let me take,
um my module as it one script name.
So actually,
my requirement days I have a value.
My value.
My value Is this much?
Yes,
Arjun that this much is my value.
No,
I am going to use this value in supposed 10 other programs,
or ever transcripts.
So in each and every script I need to define this value,
right?
Exactly.
We thought any type O.
I need to define your value perfectly.
Same way.
What?
Our I different year Some 4635 or something like that.
Exactly.
This number I never define in each and every script.
But I have some confusion that I may be our type some wrong value instead of giving this
Were you in my 10 scripts?
That's why what I'm doing is in one script I'm going to defend my value.
Then this value without a defining I can use it in other scripts as well.
Then how you can use it?
Let me write one more script Here.
Let me You in the name as forced to skip dressage.
Sorry.
First skip not be way fine.
See,
now my requirement is whatever the my value variable is there And you are my model dot The
way skip that variable I want to use in my current descript.
Yes,
you can use it.
So if you want to use you are variable off other scream.
The very first step in your current skipped work you have to do is unit to write import.
You were previously scripted name in which you define your variable,
right?
But don't right dot The way we thought,
Not the way you have to read your script name.
So my script name is actually my model dot the way.
But here I am writing simply my model.
That's it,
right Fine,
no,
for your current descript,
my model script is a model,
right for your current escaped.
What are the skit name?
You hold importer that is called simply more deal for your current A script.
Actually,
that is also one script.
But whenever if we import this script into other step now for other strip your previous
script,
which is importing that is a model that's a see.
Now what I'm doing is I'm going to print the variable value,
which is there in your previous a script.
So if you want to display the variable,
or if you want to use the variable which is there in your previous trip,
the first thing you have to import that skip name without dot The way extension?
Yes,
I'm importing.
Then after that,
if you want to display your variable value.
But if you want to use your variable value,
what you have to do is your script name than dot dot My value.
There is a variable in your previous clip.
Right?
See,
in this escape,
these are variable.
So if you want to access this variable,
you want to mention first your previous script name Whatever you are importing dark this
value,
right?
See that?
No,
I am running.
See the output?
You're getting some value.
Actually,
we're not defending this variable,
right?
But you're getting because this variable is there in your previous program,
our previous scrape on in the current strip.
You are importing that so that I I am reusing that variable in different scripts.
So this is the are going days with your modules.
Suppose if I am not importing right?
Let me say we don't money.
See the output you're getting in a My model is not defined without having that how you can
access So in the current program to know that there is a one escaped called my module.
He hardly imported first on before going to import.
Make sure that as off?
No.
As off.
We are working with the basics,
right?
Make sure that those two scripts are there in the same location.
If reason a different location,
how you can access that We will see.
Going forward for time.
Me Whenever.
If you want to import one script in tow.
Other strip,
right?
What?
The script should be there in the same location.
That's a no See the output?
Yes.
Right.
So you know,
for example,
we have created our one model.
Right?
I There are some default modules with your Pitre.
There are some default models.
Suppose I just assumed that you are working with the mathematics.
The value off buys a common right.
I mean,
uses off your value off by is very four months in audio.
That's why.
See that there is a model called Matt default model with your python.
So that default models you don't bother about there directly imported.
Right?
How to know whether Matt is a default model or not?
I will show you right for timing.
Just as soon die.
There is a model called Matt.
Then I'm importing that right.
There is a pre defined program called Matt.
I'm importing into our current strip.
Then you can say that your math is it.
More deal are to import any model.
The procedure is important,
Matt.
No.
In your math,
you have a value called people B.
I fight by variable value.
Let me print it.
See that?
You know the value,
right?
That's what you're getting?
No,
you don't remember this Bible,
you know,
because in the nobody fair working it bite on there is a default model called math.
Apparently import that on from there.
Access.
You were P I variable so that you are getting your pie value.
But you are the initial stage.
How you know what other different models are there with your fight on how to use that?
Secondly story.
First of all,
your don't know what are the different models are there with your python?
Nothing.
Is there simply weapon your python shell or bite on common line?
Let me and they're into my fight on by typing Fight on.
Then simply write help,
help in quotations.
Just write more jewels and then hit Enter.
Just wait some time so that it is going to collect all the default models which are there
with your fight on.
See while installing or python right along with your python.
It will also install some models.
So these all are the models,
which all day with your piper.
But don't worry.
You don't need to learn all these models.
I already told you at the very beginning,
based on you were interested.
Area where you're going to use your python.
Based on that,
he hard to learn the models.
She's there is a model called Math.
There is a model called Matt.
No,
you know,
there are different models here,
right?
Then how you will come to know that is how I mean how to use that Matt model or how to use
any module which is there with your python.
Right,
guys biting fall.
There is a documentation with the aura fight on.
If you want to know that,
first of all,
select anyone off the model I want to work with.
Suppose,
Matt.
Matt model.
Right?
So from your common laid sell directly,
simply import Matt right.
Then see the I r.
Off Matt.
Then you will get some list off operations which are available with this matter Module For
time being.
Don't consider the operations which are there with underscores.
They are for documentation.
Purpose.
You don't worry about them Other than this I mean,
guys,
the These are first of all,
all our operations in this.
These are for documentation purpose.
Okay,
as I've no,
don't touch them upto this Start from here.
Not these All are the operations with your math module.
But suppose I want to know to power three.
Then pour off to come on three and I want to know that by value.
But here you may.
How some small contrition when No What?
I'm finding power.
I'm providing values but for I am not priority because by is a constant value.
If it is a constant than that is a variable.
But poet,
you need some input,
right?
So for what?
Well,
you're going toe.
Find out Cover right to power.
Three to keep two square Tobar four to bore fight you need We were values to find the
powers.
That's why see whenever if input is required.
That type of operations are called something like functions so that he is a function and
this is a variable.
See,
you know there is a definition for your model Model Consists off functions,
classes on variables for time being.
First we observed variables.
Now,
if you take your mat function,
P a is simply variable.
I'm in constant value,
right?
But Bobby's a function simply again as off.
No,
you just remember,
if any operation with parentheses them that is a function if any operation with parents is
that is a function function needs always some inputs,
like so based on situation you can provide input are sometimes you're pardonable
automatically take required input.
So it really is a function you help.
That entity is if it is a value,
you have only like variable.
Thank,
but how you can come to know whether you need to provide input or not?
Nothing is there once again the Harvard document for that.
Let me do this,
Matt.
Help Matt.
So before going to list out all liver operations,
you have to do import your particular module,
then the air off your model name so that you will get this one.
If you want to see the documentation,
just simply run helping Matt.
I want to see that you're going to get document.
So this is a function because you have parents to see or know otherwise.
If you have to hear functions badly there mentioning these are the functions so functions
here.
The mad functions need some input.
See that excess elements You units some.
You are to provide some input.
You have a lot off functions here,
right?
With your Matt for all functions,
you need to provide some input.
Just Abd already.
Maybe sometimes you might have function without any value.
Also,
I will show you that type of things in with other models and come down just simply just to
go keep,
uh,
last see here.
Day dies that data.
Apparently we don't function evil.
You pie value,
right?
You hope so.
These are not functions directly.
Data you are getting.
So after observing this one,
you can't decide directly by seeing them without having any practice.
We can't decide whether it is a function or variable our data our value.
Right.
So this because you are at initial stage before going to use any model,
just have a glance once on help off your model.
Just enter in this way.
I'm just go from top to down at least once so that you can get some idea.
Ho,
This function is giving are taking some imports.
And this function is giving some output.
In this former something like that,
you will get an idea just to go through that once.
All once.
See suppose from your Matthew.
How One more operation court a lot off operations.
Here,
let me take one more thing.
See?
First of all,
let me run this.
There is a operation called Factorial.
You know,
in mathematics we have a factorial,
right?
So simply matt dot factorial,
but simply fire on this.
You're getting another light.
Takes exactly one argument digital given That means here you are to provide some argument.
So factory love what number you need.
That's what you are to provide.
Here,
let me do number 4 24 is the factory.
All right,
Let me take fine than 1 20 is the factory.
You know that so,
like ways from Matthew are different operations here from here to here,
Right?
So this is the way how you can import your model and how you can use that.
And if you want to know different operations on your model.
Simply import your model then.
Dude,
the air off you are.
I mean,
any model name.
But before running this command on your potential,
make sure that you ran import your model name,
otherwise it won't work.
Let's say the air off CS we actually see is we as a model to work with your CSB files.
But Europe item saying that CSB is not defined because before running you would be air
operation.
I need to be imported.
Not just know,
importer on the now I'm seeing the air of CSP.
No,
these all are the operations with your CS three module,
right?
And I don't know how to use that.
Then simply run helps us we Then you will get a document just to go through that once each
and every thing is defined here,
you'll get complete idea hope to use your seats remodel right.
But I'm giving one more recession.
You know,
always Google is better,
right?
You can easily get require its in Texas with your Google.
Let's say see,
I'm going to type.
How do work with excel sheets using python?
That's very light.
Of course you have someone is there,
but instead of that.
Even God,
Directly.
Some documentation.
Let me see that.
Let me open this website.
This one,
some some links.
We just open it like See,
there is a model called Excel wt Using that you can work with your excel seats.
That's it.
No,
no,
no.
The thing where you about which model you need for your requirement.
Anyway,
we're going toe completely different on Google.
Only,
right?
Yes,
it's very easy.
But once evil practice,
you know,
need to search in Google.
Apparently,
you can remember,
and we can use your require model for your requirements.
Right.
So that is the uses off model.
So finally,
you can conclude that by using models,
your work will be very easy to work with your fight on.
That's why you actually,
even ever if you're learning,
fight on,
you should concentrate on more models,
right?
If you know more models,
you can write your script in effect to manner,
right?
So there's well going forward.
We'll go with the different models with step by step by.
Fine.
So just I'm giving you a note.
If you want to create your one model,
you have to write escape name with my model.
Any any name?
Not only my model.
Just your script name got away on you can import that as a model.
In other script,
we thought about the way extension.
That's it.
Right?
And guys,
basically,
with your fight on,
there are two types off modules.
One is default models on second witness,
third party models.
See,
just now I open the link in your Google,
right?
How to work with your Excel States.
If you are very here,
you can work with the excelsis using Excel WT model.
Let me do one thing.
I'm trying to import that model on my fight on.
It's giving another no mortal name.
Call Excell.
W d.
That means these not the default model with your python.
So once if you install your python,
you will get only some of the models.
Not all the models,
you know,
invite anyhow,
one like 40,000 models,
right?
So study some will.
The u l E s do you know,
invite on you how one like 47,000 models,
but all models you're not getting here.
Only some of them you're getting right.
That means these are the default models on remaining all our third party models.
So just now I show you that walk with your excel seeds you need excel WT model.
Or that is just to write your excelsis the same way.
If you want to read or excel sheets,
you need excel already model.
But those models are not telling your python.
Then hope then hope nothing is that just come through here.
There is a command with your python once.
If we install your python,
they if you want to see that on your windows operating system Were you going for a while
Also?
Sure.
You want to wear UNIX like systems as well?
I see radio install your pie time Guys are very in Chile off this course.
Suppose I installed both the Russians.
Let me go to fight on 37 See here Help Python Somewhere in scripts he hoped the poor people
three people read or $7 seem all our look at the same point.
BP is there are 50 yards are not people.
So this is the common through which you can install any third party model,
right?
See if I want to install in third party model What I always first awful.
I need to provide complete part way might be Piece that in this way.
Then install Excel WD so to write excelsis I need X LW to model.
Then I came running this way so that your acceptability model will be installed so that we
can use that to work with your Excel sheets using your fight on.
But before running this common,
make sure that you should out Internet connectivity.
Right?
So there's one more thing if you already added this part of your system path known into
probably complete part right.
See that I'm removing this part because I already added my part where people's installed
that part.
I aren't to my system parts.
That's why you definitely I'm running between stole Excel wt right?
Just wait.
It is going toe collect your excel double D model.
Make sure that Why learning this come and you should have an Internet connectivity Now it
has been installed successfully.
Let me do one thing.
I'm going to exit right Let me re weapon Because once if we install the hard to reopen your
eternal then entering your python Colonel,
try to import your ex eligibility.
Previously you are you are getting another.
But now you are not getting another because it is there Now I want to read Excel seats.
Then there is a model call XLR D.
But that is not there.
Then what do you do again?
Come out from your potential.
Simply pip,
Install,
Excel or the that like find so these away How you can install it.
What?
Third party modules.
I suppose if you want to work with AWS,
then there is a model called Boto three.
Then you want to run deep.
Install Bordeaux three like that's it.
So otherwise,
I want to work with some remote servers using Python.
Then there is a model called part of my core.
Then he had to run Pip Install para maiko or fabric.
There are different models to work with the remote servers.
One of the model is part of Michael.
That's it,
right?
We will see All those things were going forward with stepsister.
Fine.
And finally you have to know one more thing.
Yeah.
Anyway,
days before going to use any model,
right?
You hardly important that first import either default or third party models before using
them.
But before using third for the model.
Just check it once.
Whether you have a that our party mornings with your python soffit or not,
if it is not very,
can install it,
right?
You simply by running Pip install you are.
What's your name then?
Nice as off.
No.
To import your third party models.
Right?
We are following this procedure.
Import your model name.
Let me do one thing.
Let me weapon my bite on strip.
See?
I am importing in this way Import Matt.
So from that I'm printing ph value heart.
Let me find some.
Pull it off.
Three Power four or three.
Port to mine.
I want to get it right.
See the output?
Yes,
it's working.
It is giving.
This is one way to import any module.
There is one more of it.
Nineties.
You can also import using from option a name from option.
You have two more methods.
That is from Matt Import all the operations.
The meaning for this is from Matt.
Import all the operations.
See that?
Let me First of all,
let me clear my court.
What I'm doing is injured off important.
Matt,
I'm going from Matt Import start.
Right.
See you guys.
previously.
Whenever if you do in this way import Matt Noto,
find out you are high value.
Really?
What we are doing math dot p a.
Right now I'm going to come in this court.
But if you import in this way from Matt Important star at this time,
don't write like mad,
not be way directly.
Cannot be.
I see that are directly can use your operation Our operation off three squared.
So you're reducing your your syntax in celebrating math Not be a matter power directly or
writing p a in power.
Right?
This is one day,
But,
you know,
in math,
not only in math,
if you go with any model,
you'll have a lot off operations with that butler model.
Right?
But here I am importing all the operations from that model.
But I assume that I don't want to work with all the operations with which are there with
your math model.
I want to work with only P a.
Then I can do in this way from Matt Input only P.
I know if I run the court like be a let me say with this or I need powers were late anyway
.
Sorry it is not be power so you can import your particular modules.
Not only that days let me do one more thing,
I suppose.
Import Matt.
I'm doing right.
Very 1st 1 So if I do this what I'm doing import math,
not be right.
Then you are getting injured off math.
I can create some different name import matters.
Um,
import.
Mattias IAM.
You're creating your wound.
Name for your module while importing it into your current script.
I'll see that if I don't matador be a You're getting another because in your script math
module we are treating as Yum then just tried to write Diem.
Not so what is the advantage by creating Aaliyah's names?
Means sometimes some modern names are very lengthy models.
Let's say there is a model called sub process,
so I don't want to type sub process I get and again in different places in my script than
what I will do.
Import some process are simply SP not to.
There is a model call flat form,
so let me do one thing first in platform there is operation called System,
through which you can find out the taper off your operating system name?
Yes,
I'm getting windows,
but I don't want to type platform instead of that.
What I'm doing is input platform SPD.
Then see you're creating Aaliyah's name.
Now,
In order to use platform,
you have to use PD in your script but to right?
So these are the different ways to import your modules.
Right?
So that is very,
very important.
The very straightforward ways import Matt Somewhat.
I'm giving.
So in this case,
you have to use suppose mad that p a operation are brain some mad dot bought off three.
Come on.
Whatever the power you want,
you can find it.
That is one way.
Let me right.
Method one.
Right.
But if you don't want to use math,
Azmath model in new a script.
If you want to provide,
you are required name for your model.
Yes,
you can create it by creating Aaliyah's names.
See that what I'm doing is import import,
Matt as some empty podium.
Whatever.
It may be your wish.
Right then.
Print.
Um dot Be a wanted to take no,
Matt,
your toe take'em print e m dot partof do common three,
then method three.
See from your to start with the from Matt import all operations in this case,
How you're to use is simply B I or print pull it off some four square.
That's it.
It's very easy,
right?
Come back to your previous.
To matters that is somewhat easy.
But while using this,
sometimes you may get confusion.
So I will tell you when you will get confusion.
Right?
Because if you go with,
if you're going to import to three models,
sometimes same name is there with the different models.
Other time you'll get confusion,
right?
So at that time,
we will see for timing anywhere.
These are those tired procedures to import your models in a different way,
and this is the a last preference.
Guys don't prefer much.
This saw this thing from Matt Import only P a on then our operations.
So here also,
you can use directly in this way only right,
that's it.
So these are the different ways to imported What modules,
Right?
So there's one more thing.
If you want to import to three models into your current script,
let's say there are There is a model called Black Form and just know we have seen math,
model and I want the import.
One more model called assists and I want to import ways model and I want to imports of
process in this way you can import This is one way or are you can also import directly
Black form comma Matt Comma sees common ways comus up process These also correct.
But writing in a single line all models is not good practice.
But if you want to get right it I will prefer this way it is just for looking but because
it is good That's why I will try to use always in this way whenever If I want to import
multiple models with my current script un guys final the point.
You don't remember that if you use the modules then you were lent off your court Your
corland will be reduced.
That is that One days with your models.
If you know more models,
you can write affective script.
Right?
Okay,
okay.
So you can get this document on the bluff.
This video in the distance cramp description part.
Okay,
just try to remember all these four steps to import your models on.
This is for how to import multiple models.
I Okay.
Thank you for watching this video